notes.md, before:

To-Do:
- update projects page to allow for image close up view
- add admin login to allow for image CRUD 
    - add tabs/buttons for image data filtering
        - ex: most recent, etc.
- images page
    - add redis for image caching
- impplement error responses with toast messgaes
- add database CRUD with online cloud storage (cloudinary)
- reupload images to cloudinary
    - re-assign createdAt information

Problems:
- navbar shutters on link press
- some images resize to different sizes
- fetch route to login shows username and password in navigation url
- fix mobile navgiation admin image scroll & zoom location
- fix createdAt text not showing on cloud images 
- search functionality not working


Completed 
- route/UI for navigation
- routes/pages:
    - home
    - about
    - projects
    - image
        - search bar
        - implement infinte scrolling of images 
        - store images in upstack
- create logout functionality 
- add edit image functionality
    - create edit image popup ui
    - add default value placeholders
- add edit image functionality
    - create server route for edit particular image
- add delete image functionality
- add useinifinite query for admin image scroll


Technologies:
- upstash: serverless redis
    - https://console.upstash.com/
- uploadthing: cloud storage for images
    - https://uploadthing.com/
- orm: prisma
    - database type: postgresql
- host images:

Notes:
- to use nodemon, place this inside of package.json: 
    - ,"type": "module"
- prisma does not have a @required attribute
    - automatically requires if does not have ? modifier
- rename .js files to .mjs files to run files with es6 statements (ex: import)
- tailwindcss + bootstrap conflict in css 
- jwt does not run on edge runtime
    - https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/43115
- next13 middleware 
    - Get cookies from nextJS middleware
        - https://maxschmitt.me/posts/next-js-cookies
    - where to place middleware.js
        - solution: at top of root directory
        - link: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76350773/next-js-middleware-not-functioning-correctly-in-typescript-what-am-i-doing-wro
- prisma.schema file does not allow conditional logic
    - link: https://github.com/prisma/prisma/discussions/20661
- using next in local development will always have NODE_ENV=development even if set it to production in .env file 

Issues:
- images that did not upload properly:
    - ERROR: IMG_1981.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_0561.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_1878.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_1449.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_1711.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_1216.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_1755.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.


Fixed:
- post request to login with middleware does infinite pending request
    - solution: remove method="POST" attribute on form tag
- infinite scroll too much causes page to freeze with loading icon everywhere
    - possible issues:
        - images load too slow (since being rescaled)
        - useinfinitequery may be slow to load images
            - counterarg: images box outline displayed already 
    - solution:
        - make next Image component priority set to true
- axios post/get request sends back html junk  
    - solution: 
        - set headers to application/json
        - remove trycatch redirect from middleware 
- how to connect jwt verification with login header on navbar
    - attempts:
        - use nextjs server action inside of nav component
    - solution:
        - create server route to verify jwt
- nextjs client side redirect does not redirect after post request
    - solution: window.location.replace('/')
    - link: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76875888/nextjs-redirect-not-working-after-running-post-request
- prisma findMany does not show all fields in return data
    - solution:
        - update seed file with new fields
        - update prisma schema with new fields
        - migrate and generate prisma
        - restart next server
- dropping table 
    - psql -U postgress 
        - password is password
    - \d rke-construction 
    - drop table "Project";
- editing image at scrolled down image causes window to scroll up by default 
    - reason: edit button was link component with href="#"
    - solution: change edit button to button element
- project path contains category
    - problem: if update category, need to move image from one folder to another
    - solution: remove folders and make it one flat folder
        - the database will store the category of the image
- admin image edit cannot quickly update without page having to be reloaded
    - solution: create ImageEdit component that contains fetch update logic
        - update state after image successfully updated
- creating duplicate images throws error if 2nd duplicate image is deleted 
    - problem: only one copy of image (collision)
    - solution: 
        - save images as random hashed filenames
        - will only use file path later one to retrieve image from local files 
- patching image with living_room throws error
    - solution: need to remove "_" from request category paramter 
        - since mapRoom in utils does not use "_"
- using infinite query and adding image does not immediately add image to list
    - solution:
        - create new state list with newly added image 
        - will update state list when fetch request made for new image
        - will not show duplicates since useinfinite query needs hard refresh to repull all images 
- delete route did not delete images from cloudinary
    - solution: delete function needed entire publicurl/path from image
        - ex: image in folder = <folder>/<public_url>
- cloudinary returns html instead of expecting json
    - cloudinary does not formally support nextjs library since community supported  
    - issue: unhandled error when method invoked in nextjs build
    - solution: use upload method 
        - link: https://community.cloudinary.com/discussion/432/image-upload-from-api-route-on-cloudinary-works-on-localhost-but-not-on-vercel-production
    - IMPORTANT:
        - make sure mimetype is correct
        - ex: "data:image/" + ext
- moving from another link to admin link does not load css correctly on admin page
    - attempts:
        - removed flowbite styling package
        - removing bootstrap styles (but unable to since carousel relies on bootstrap)
    - solution:
        - convert buttons into anchor tags
    

Questions:
- how to best error handle in middleware 
    - ex: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CfkiO8wTSOY
- how to best add rate limiter in middleware   
    - ex: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h4-2K7nFf7s

Commit message:

fixed bug -- search query fails to retrieve images of given category

notes.md, after:

To-Do:
- update projects page to allow for image close up view
- add admin login to allow for image CRUD 
    - add tabs/buttons for image data filtering
        - ex: most recent, etc.
- images page
    - add redis for image caching
- impplement error responses with toast messgaes
- add database CRUD with online cloud storage (cloudinary)
- reupload images to cloudinary
    - re-assign createdAt information

Problems:
- navbar shutters on link press
- some images resize to different sizes
- fetch route to login shows username and password in navigation url
- fix mobile navgiation admin image scroll & zoom location
- fix createdAt text not showing on cloud images 
- after logging in, nav still shows login button (only on production websites)


Completed 
- route/UI for navigation
- routes/pages:
    - home
    - about
    - projects
    - image
        - search bar
        - implement infinte scrolling of images 
        - store images in upstack
- create logout functionality 
- add edit image functionality
    - create edit image popup ui
    - add default value placeholders
- add edit image functionality
    - create server route for edit particular image
- add delete image functionality
- add useinifinite query for admin image scroll


Technologies:
- upstash: serverless redis
    - https://console.upstash.com/
- uploadthing: cloud storage for images
    - https://uploadthing.com/
- orm: prisma
    - database type: postgresql
- host images:

Notes:
- to use nodemon, place this inside of package.json: 
    - ,"type": "module"
- prisma does not have a @required attribute
    - automatically requires if does not have ? modifier
- rename .js files to .mjs files to run files with es6 statements (ex: import)
- tailwindcss + bootstrap conflict in css 
- jwt does not run on edge runtime
    - https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/43115
- next13 middleware 
    - Get cookies from nextJS middleware
        - https://maxschmitt.me/posts/next-js-cookies
    - where to place middleware.js
        - solution: at top of root directory
        - link: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76350773/next-js-middleware-not-functioning-correctly-in-typescript-what-am-i-doing-wro
- prisma.schema file does not allow conditional logic
    - link: https://github.com/prisma/prisma/discussions/20661
- using next in local development will always have NODE_ENV=development even if set it to production in .env file 

Issues:
- images that did not upload properly:
    - ERROR: IMG_1981.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_0561.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_1878.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_1449.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_1711.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_1216.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.
    - ERROR: IMG_1755.JPG upload to cloudinary failure.


Fixed:
- post request to login with middleware does infinite pending request
    - solution: remove method="POST" attribute on form tag
- infinite scroll too much causes page to freeze with loading icon everywhere
    - possible issues:
        - images load too slow (since being rescaled)
        - useinfinitequery may be slow to load images
            - counterarg: images box outline displayed already 
    - solution:
        - make next Image component priority set to true
- axios post/get request sends back html junk  
    - solution: 
        - set headers to application/json
        - remove trycatch redirect from middleware 
- how to connect jwt verification with login header on navbar
    - attempts:
        - use nextjs server action inside of nav component
    - solution:
        - create server route to verify jwt
- nextjs client side redirect does not redirect after post request
    - solution: window.location.replace('/')
    - link: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76875888/nextjs-redirect-not-working-after-running-post-request
- prisma findMany does not show all fields in return data
    - solution:
        - update seed file with new fields
        - update prisma schema with new fields
        - migrate and generate prisma
        - restart next server
- dropping table 
    - psql -U postgress 
        - password is password
    - \d rke-construction 
    - drop table "Project";
- editing image at scrolled down image causes window to scroll up by default 
    - reason: edit button was link component with href="#"
    - solution: change edit button to button element
- project path contains category
    - problem: if update category, need to move image from one folder to another
    - solution: remove folders and make it one flat folder
        - the database will store the category of the image
- admin image edit cannot quickly update without page having to be reloaded
    - solution: create ImageEdit component that contains fetch update logic
        - update state after image successfully updated
- creating duplicate images throws error if 2nd duplicate image is deleted 
    - problem: only one copy of image (collision)
    - solution: 
        - save images as random hashed filenames
        - will only use file path later one to retrieve image from local files 
- patching image with living_room throws error
    - solution: need to remove "_" from request category paramter 
        - since mapRoom in utils does not use "_"
- using infinite query and adding image does not immediately add image to list
    - solution:
        - create new state list with newly added image 
        - will update state list when fetch request made for new image
        - will not show duplicates since useinfinite query needs hard refresh to repull all images 
- delete route did not delete images from cloudinary
    - solution: delete function needed entire publicurl/path from image
        - ex: image in folder = <folder>/<public_url>
- cloudinary returns html instead of expecting json
    - cloudinary does not formally support nextjs library since community supported  
    - issue: unhandled error when method invoked in nextjs build
    - solution: use upload method 
        - link: https://community.cloudinary.com/discussion/432/image-upload-from-api-route-on-cloudinary-works-on-localhost-but-not-on-vercel-production
    - IMPORTANT:
        - make sure mimetype is correct
        - ex: "data:image/" + ext
- moving from another link to admin link does not load css correctly on admin page
    - attempts:
        - removed flowbite styling package
        - removing bootstrap styles (but unable to since carousel relies on bootstrap)
    - solution:
        - convert buttons into anchor tags
- search functionality not working
    - solution: query route needed to remove mapping dictionary 
        - since query is already an instance of Room enum

Questions:
- how to best error handle in middleware 
    - ex: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CfkiO8wTSOY
- how to best add rate limiter in middleware   
    - ex: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h4-2K7nFf7s
